## Bean Overview

A Spring IoC container manages one or more beans. These beans are created with the configuration metadata that you supply to the container, for example, in the form of XML `<bean/>` definitions.

Within the container itself, these bean definitions are represented as BeanDefinition objects, which contain (among other information) the following metadata:

- A package-qualified class name: typically the actual implementation class of the bean being defined.

- Bean behavioral configuration elements, which state how the bean should behave in the container (scope, lifecycle callbacks, and so forth).

- References to other beans that are needed for the bean to do its work; these references are also called collaborators or dependencies.

- Other configuration settings to set in the newly created object, for example, the number of connections to use in a bean that manages a connection pool, or the size limit of the pool.

This metadata translates to a set of properties that make up each bean definition.

TODO Table 1. The bean definition

In addition to bean definitions that contain information on how to create a specific bean, the ApplicationContext implementations also permit the registration of existing objects that are created outside the container, by users. This is done by accessing the ApplicationContext’s BeanFactory via the method getBeanFactory() which returns the BeanFactory implementation DefaultListableBeanFactory. DefaultListableBeanFactory supports this registration through the methods registerSingleton(..) and registerBeanDefinition(..). However, typical applications work solely with beans defined through metadata bean definitions.

>Bean metadata and manually supplied singleton instances need to be registered as early as possible, in order for the container to properly reason about them during autowiring and other introspection steps. While overriding of existing metadata and existing singleton instances is supported to some degree, the registration of new beans at runtime (concurrently with live access to factory) is not officially supported and may lead to concurrent access exceptions and/or inconsistent state in the bean container.

### 1.3.1. Naming beans

Every bean has one or more identifiers. These identifiers must be unique within the container that hosts the bean. A bean usually has only one identifier, but if it requires more than one, the extra ones can be considered aliases.

In XML-based configuration metadata, you use the id and/or name attributes to specify the bean identifier(s). The id attribute allows you to specify exactly one id. Conventionally these names are alphanumeric ('myBean', 'fooService', etc.), but may contain special characters as well. If you want to introduce other aliases to the bean, you can also specify them in the name attribute, separated by a comma (,), semicolon (;), or white space. As a historical note, in versions prior to Spring 3.1, the id attribute was defined as an xsd:ID type, which constrained possible characters. As of 3.1, it is defined as an xsd:string type. Note that bean id uniqueness is still enforced by the container, though no longer by XML parsers.

You are not required to supply a name or id for a bean. If no name or id is supplied explicitly, the container generates a unique name for that bean. However, if you want to refer to that bean by name, through the use of the ref element or Service Locator style lookup, you must provide a name. Motivations for not supplying a name are related to using inner beans and autowiring collaborators.

>            Bean Naming Conventions
>The convention is to use the standard Java convention for instance field names when naming beans. That is, bean names start with a lowercase letter, and are camel-cased from then on. Examples of such names would be (without quotes) 'accountManager', 'accountService', 'userDao', 'loginController', and so forth.  
>Naming beans consistently makes your configuration easier to read and understand, and if you are using Spring AOP it helps a lot when applying advice to a set of beans related by name.

>With component scanning in the classpath, Spring generates bean names for unnamed components, following the rules above: essentially, taking the simple class name and turning its initial character to lower-case. However, in the (unusual) special case when there is more than one character and both the first and second characters are upper case, the original casing gets preserved. These are the same rules as defined by java.beans.Introspector.decapitalize (which Spring is using here).

#### Aliasing a bean outside the bean definition

### 1.3.2. Instantiating beans

TODO

#### Instantiation with a static factory method

#### Instantiation using an instance factory method

Similar to instantiation through a static factory method, instantiation with an instance factory method invokes a non-static method of an existing bean from the container to create a new bean. To use this mechanism, leave the class attribute empty, and in the factory-bean attribute, specify the name of a bean in the current (or parent/ancestor) container that contains the instance method that is to be invoked to create the object. Set the name of the factory method itself with the `factory-method` attribute.

与使用静态工厂方法相似，调用一个（工厂）实例的非静态工厂方法创建一个新对象。要使用此机制，请将class属性保留为空，并在`factory-bean`属性中指定bean的名称(即工厂类的名称）。 使用`factory-method`属性设置工厂方法的名称。

```{}
<!-- the factory bean, which contains a method called createInstance() -->
<bean id="serviceLocator" class="examples.DefaultServiceLocator">
    <!-- inject any dependencies required by this locator bean -->
</bean>

<!-- the bean to be created via the factory bean -->
<bean id="clientService"
    factory-bean="serviceLocator"
    factory-method="createClientServiceInstance"/>
```

```{}
public class DefaultServiceLocator {

    private static ClientService clientService = new ClientServiceImpl();

    public ClientService createClientServiceInstance() {
        return clientService;
    }
}
```

One factory class can also hold more than one factory method as shown here:

```{}
<bean id="serviceLocator" class="examples.DefaultServiceLocator">
    <!-- inject any dependencies required by this locator bean -->
</bean>

<bean id="clientService"
    factory-bean="serviceLocator"
    factory-method="createClientServiceInstance"/>

<bean id="accountService"
    factory-bean="serviceLocator"
    factory-method="createAccountServiceInstance"/>
```

```{}
public class DefaultServiceLocator {

    private static ClientService clientService = new ClientServiceImpl();

    private static AccountService accountService = new AccountServiceImpl();

    public ClientService createClientServiceInstance() {
        return clientService;
    }

    public AccountService createAccountServiceInstance() {
        return accountService;
    }
}
```

This approach shows that the factory bean itself can be managed and configured through dependency injection (DI). See Dependencies and configuration in detail.

>In Spring documentation, factory bean refers to a bean that is configured in the Spring container that will create objects through an instance or static factory method. By contrast, FactoryBean (notice the capitalization) refers to a Spring-specific FactoryBean .