# 6. Java Configuration

General support for Java Configuration was added to Spring Framework in Spring 3.1. Since Spring Security 3.2 there has been Spring Security Java Configuration support which enables users to easily configure Spring Security without the use of any XML.  

If you are familiar with the Chapter 7, Security Namespace Configuration then you should find quite a few similarities between it and the Security Java Configuration support.  
如果你熟悉第7章Namespace配置，你会发现和Java Configuration有点相似。

> Spring Security provides lots of sample applications which demonstrate the use of Spring Security Java Configuration.

## 6.1 Hello Web Security Java Configuration

The first step is to create our Spring Security Java Configuration. The configuration creates a Servlet Filter known as the `springSecurityFilterChain` which is responsible for all the security (protecting the application URLs, validating submitted username and passwords, redirecting to the log in form, etc) within your application. You can find the most basic example of a Spring Security Java Configuration below:

下边是一个最简单的例子

```{}
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;

import org.springframework.context.annotation.*;
import org.springframework.security.config.annotation.authentication.builders.*;
import org.springframework.security.config.annotation.web.configuration.*;

@EnableWebSecurity
public class WebSecurityConfig implements WebMvcConfigurer {

    @Bean
    public UserDetailsService userDetailsService() throws Exception {
        InMemoryUserDetailsManager manager = new InMemoryUserDetailsManager();
        manager.createUser(User.withDefaultPasswordEncoder().username("user").password("password").roles("USER").build());
        return manager;
    }
}
```

### 6.1.1 AbstractSecurityWebApplicationInitializer

The next step is to register the `springSecurityFilterChain` with the war. This can be done in Java Configuration with Spring’s `WebApplicationInitializer` support in a Servlet 3.0+ environment. Not suprisingly, Spring Security provides a base class `AbstractSecurityWebApplicationInitializer` that will ensure the springSecurityFilterChain gets registered for you. The way in which we use `AbstractSecurityWebApplicationInitializer` differs depending on if we are already using Spring or if Spring Security is the only Spring component in our application.  

下一步是使用war注册`springSecurityFilterChain`。 这可以在Java配置中使用Spring的`WebApplicationInitializer`支持在Servlet 3.0+环境中完成。 不出所料，Spring Security提供了一个基类AbstractSecurityWebApplicationInitializer，它将确保为您注册`springSecurityFilterChain`。 我们使用`AbstractSecurityWebApplicationInitializer`的方式取决于我们是否已经使用Spring，或者Spring Security是否是我们应用程序中唯一的Spring组件。

- Section 5.1.2, “AbstractSecurityWebApplicationInitializer without Existing Spring” - Use these instructions if you are not using Spring already

- Section 5.1.3, “AbstractSecurityWebApplicationInitializer with Spring MVC” - Use these instructions if you are already using Spring

### 6.1.2 AbstractSecurityWebApplicationInitializer with Spring MVC

If you are not using Spring or Spring MVC, you will need to pass in the WebSecurityConfig into the superclass to ensure the configuration is picked up. You can find an example below:

如果我们没有使用Spring 或者 SpringMVC，我们需要把`WebSecurityConfig`传入到`AbstractSecurityWebApplicationInitializer`确保获取configuration。

```{}
import org.springframework.security.web.context.*;

public class SecurityWebApplicationInitializer
    extends AbstractSecurityWebApplicationInitializer {

    public SecurityWebApplicationInitializer() {
        super(WebSecurityConfig.class);
    }
}
```

The SecurityWebApplicationInitializer will do the following things:

- Automatically register the springSecurityFilterChain Filter for every URL in your application
- Add a ContextLoaderListener that loads the WebSecurityConfig.

### 6.1.3 AbstractSecurityWebApplicationInitializer with Spring MVC

### 6.2 HttpSecurity

Thus far our WebSecurityConfig only contains information about how to authenticate our users. How does Spring Security know that we want to require all users to be authenticated? How does Spring Security know we want to support form based authentication? The reason for this is that the WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter provides a default configuration in the configure(HttpSecurity http) method that looks like:

到目前为止，我们的`WebSecurityConfig`仅包含有关如何验证用户身份的信息。 Spring Security如何知道我们要求所有用户进行身份验证？ Spring Security如何知道我们想要支持基于表单的身份验证？ 原因是WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter在configure（HttpSecurity http）方法中提供了一个默认配置，如下所示：

```{}
protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
    http
        .authorizeRequests()
            .anyRequest().authenticated()
            .and()
        .formLogin()
            .and()
        .httpBasic();
}
```

The default configuration above:

- Ensures that any request to our application requires the user to be authenticated
- Allows users to authenticate with form based login
- Allows users to authenticate with HTTP Basic authenticatio

You will notice that this configuration is quite similar the XML Namespace configuration:

```{}
<http>
	<intercept-url pattern="/**" access="authenticated"/>
	<form-login />
	<http-basic />
</http>
```

The Java Configuration equivalent of closing an XML tag is expressed using the and() method which allows us to continue configuring the parent. If you read the code it also makes sense. I want to configure authorized requests and configure form login and configure HTTP Basic authentication.

等同于XML tag的Java Configuration允许我们链式配置。如果你阅读代码，也能搞清楚。我想配置authorized requests、 form login、HTTP Basic authentication。

## 6.3 Java Configuration and Form Login

You might be wondering where the login form came from when you were prompted to log in, since we made no mention of any HTML files or JSPs. Since Spring Security’s default configuration does not explicitly set a URL for the login page, Spring Security generates one automatically, based on the features that are enabled and using standard values for the URL which processes the submitted login, the default target URL the user will be sent to after logging in and so on.

你可能好奇，login form从哪里来的，因为我们没有提到...。因为默认不指定一个login page，Spring Security会根据启用的功能自动生成一个

While the automatically generated log in page is convenient to get up and running quickly, most applications will want to provide their own log in page. To do so we can update our configuration as seen below:

```{}
```

1. The updated configuration specifies the location of the log in page.
2. We must grant all users (i.e. unauthenticated users) access to our log in page. The formLogin().permitAll() method allows granting access to all users for all URLs associated with form based log in.

An example log in page implemented with JSPs for our current configuration can be seen below:

> The login page below represents our current configuration. We could easily update our configuration if some of the defaults do not meet our needs.

```{}
<c:url value="/login" var="loginUrl"/>
<form action="${loginUrl}" method="post">       1
    <c:if test="${param.error != null}">        2
        <p>
            Invalid username and password.
        </p>
    </c:if>
    <c:if test="${param.logout != null}">       3
        <p>
            You have been logged out.
        </p>
    </c:if>
    <p>
        <label for="username">Username</label>
        <input type="text" id="username" name="username"/>  4
    </p>
    <p>
        <label for="password">Password</label>
        <input type="password" id="password" name="password"/>  5
    </p>
    <input type="hidden"                        6
        name="${_csrf.parameterName}"
        value="${_csrf.token}"/>
    <button type="submit" class="btn">Log in</button>
</form>
```

1. A POST to the /login URL will attempt to authenticate the user
2. If the query parameter error exists, authentication was attempted and failed
3. If the query parameter logout exists, the user was successfully logged out
4. The username must be present as the HTTP parameter named username
5. The password must be present as the HTTP parameter named password
6. We must the section called “Include the CSRF Token” To learn more read the Section 10.6, “Cross Site Request Forgery (CSRF)” section of the reference

## 6.4 Authorize Requests

Our examples have only required users to be authenticated and have done so for every URL in our application. We can specify custom requirements for our URLs by adding multiple children to our http.authorizeRequests() method. For example:

我们的示例仅要求用户进行身份验证，并且已针对应用程序中的每个URL进行了身份验证。 我们可以通过向http.authorizeRequests（）方法添加多个子项来指定URL的自定义要求。 例如：

```{}
protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
    http
        .authorizeRequests()                                                                1
            .antMatchers("/resources/**", "/signup", "/about").permitAll()                  2
            .antMatchers("/admin/**").hasRole("ADMIN")                                      3
            .antMatchers("/db/**").access("hasRole('ADMIN') and hasRole('DBA')")            4
            .anyRequest().authenticated()                                                   5
            .and()
        // ...
        .formLogin();
}
```

1 There are multiple children to the http.authorizeRequests() method each matcher is considered in the order they were declared.
http.authorizeRequests（）方法有多个子节点，每个匹配器按其声明的顺序进行考虑。

2 We specified multiple URL patterns that any user can access. Specifically, any user can access a request if the URL starts with "/resources/", equals "/signup", or equals "/about".
我们指定了任何用户都可以访问的多种URL模式。 具体来说，如果URL以“/ resources /”开头，等于“/ signup”或等于“/ about”，则任何用户都可以访问请求。

3 Any URL that starts with "/admin/" will be restricted to users who have the role "ROLE_ADMIN". You will notice that since we are invoking the hasRole method we do not need to specify the "ROLE_" prefix.
任何以“/ admin /”开头的URL都将仅限于具有“ROLE_ADMIN”角色的用户。 您会注意到，由于我们正在调用hasRole方法，因此我们不需要指定“ROLE_”前缀。

4 Any URL that starts with "/db/" requires the user to have both "ROLE_ADMIN" and "ROLE_DBA". You will notice that since we are using the hasRole expression we do not need to specify the "ROLE_" prefix.
任何以“/ db /”开头的URL都要求用户同时拥有“ROLE_ADMIN”和“ROLE_DBA”。 您会注意到，由于我们使用的是hasRole表达式，因此我们不需要指定“ROLE_”前缀。

5 Any URL that has not already been matched on only requires that the user be authenticated
任何尚未匹配的URL仅要求对用户进行身份验证

## 6.5 Handling Logouts

When using the WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter, logout capabilities are automatically applied. The default is that accessing the URL /logout will log the user out by:
使用WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter时，会自动应用注销功能。 默认情况下，访问URL / logout将通过以下方式注销用户：

- Invalidating the HTTP Session
- Cleaning up any RememberMe authentication that was configured
- Clearing the SecurityContextHolder
- Redirect to /login?logout
  
Similar to configuring login capabilities, however, you also have various options to further customize your logout requirements:

```
protected void configure(HttpSecurity http) throws Exception {
    http
        .logout()                                                                1
            .logoutUrl("/my/logout")                                                 2
            .logoutSuccessUrl("/my/index")                                           3
            .logoutSuccessHandler(logoutSuccessHandler)                              4
            .invalidateHttpSession(true)                                             5
            .addLogoutHandler(logoutHandler)                                         6
            .deleteCookies(cookieNamesToClear)                                       7
            .and()
        ...
}
```

1. Provides logout support. This is automatically applied when using WebSecurityConfigurerAdapter.  
提供登录支持  

2. The URL that triggers log out to occur (default is /logout). If CSRF protection is enabled (default), then the request must also be a POST. For more information, please consult the JavaDoc.  
触发注销的URL(默认为/ login？logout)。有关更多信息，请参阅JavaDoc。

3. The URL to redirect to after logout has occurred. The default is /login?logout. For more information, please consult the JavaDoc.  

4. Let’s you specify a custom LogoutSuccessHandler. If this is specified, logoutSuccessUrl() is ignored. For more information, please consult the JavaDoc.
我们指定一个自定义的LogoutSuccessHandler。如果指定了此参数，则忽略logoutSuccessUrl（）。有关更多信息，请参阅JavaDoc。

5. Specify whether to invalidate the HttpSession at the time of logout. This is true by default. Configures the SecurityContextLogoutHandler under the covers. For more information, please consult the JavaDoc.
指定在注销时是否使HttpSession无效。默认情况下这是真的。配置封面下的SecurityContextLogoutHandler。有关更多信息，请参阅JavaDoc。

6. Adds a LogoutHandler. SecurityContextLogoutHandler is added as the last LogoutHandler by default.
添加LogoutHandler。默认情况下，SecurityContextLogoutHandler被添加为最后一个LogoutHandler。

7. Allows specifying the names of cookies to be removed on logout success. This is a shortcut for adding a CookieClearingLogoutHandler explicitly.
允许指定在注销成功时删除的cookie的名称。这是显式添加CookieClearingLogoutHandler的快捷方式。

>
=== Logouts can of course also be configured using the XML Namespace notation. Please see the documentation for the logout element in the Spring Security XML Namespace section for further details. ===

Generally, in order to customize logout functionality, you can add LogoutHandler and/or LogoutSuccessHandler implementations. For many common scenarios, these handlers are applied under the covers when using the fluent API.

### 6.5.1 LogoutHandler

### 6.5.2 LogoutSuccessHandler

### 6.5.3 Further Logout-Related References
