# 1.2. DispatcherServlet

Spring MVC, like many other web frameworks, is designed around the front controller pattern where a central Servlet, the DispatcherServlet, provides a shared algorithm for request processing while actual work is performed by configurable, delegate components. This model is flexible and supports diverse workflows.

像许多其它Web框架，Spring MVC 被设计围绕前端控制器图案，其中中央Servlet的DispatcherServlet，而实际的工作是由可配置的，委托组件执行提供了一种用于请求处理的共享算法。该模型非常灵活，支持多种工作流程。

The DispatcherServlet, as any Servlet, needs to be declared and mapped according to the Servlet specification using Java configuration or in web.xml. In turn the DispatcherServlet uses Spring configuration to discover the delegate components it needs for request mapping, view resolution, exception handling, and more.

和其他任何 Servlet 一样， DispatcherServlet 需要根据使用Java配置或在 Servlet 说明书中声明和映射web.xml。反过来，DispatcherServlet 使用Spring的配置来发现它需要请求映射，视图解析，异常处理，委托组件和更多。

Below is an example of the Java configuration that registers and initializes the DispatcherServlet. This class is auto-detected by the Servlet container (see Servlet Config):

下面是注册和初始化的Java配置示例DispatcherServlet。Servlet容器自动检测此类（请参阅Servlet配置）：

```{}
public class MyWebApplicationInitializer implements WebApplicationInitializer {

    @Override
    public void onStartup(ServletContext servletCxt) {

        // Load Spring web application configuration
        AnnotationConfigWebApplicationContext ac = new AnnotationConfigWebApplicationContext();
        ac.register(AppConfig.class);
        ac.refresh();

        // Create and register the DispatcherServlet
        DispatcherServlet servlet = new DispatcherServlet(ac);
        ServletRegistration.Dynamic registration = servletCxt.addServlet("app", servlet);
        registration.setLoadOnStartup(1);
        registration.addMapping("/app/*");
    }
}
```

In addition to using the ServletContext API directly, you can also extend AbstractAnnotationConfigDispatcherServletInitializer and override specific methods (see example under Context Hierarchy).

Below is an example of web.xml configuration to register and initialize the DispatcherServlet:

```
<web-app>

    <listener>
        <listener-class>org.springframework.web.context.ContextLoaderListener</listener-class>
    </listener>

    <context-param>
        <param-name>contextConfigLocation</param-name>
        <param-value>/WEB-INF/app-context.xml</param-value>
    </context-param>

    <servlet>
        <servlet-name>app</servlet-name>
        <servlet-class>org.springframework.web.servlet.DispatcherServlet</servlet-class>
        <init-param>
            <param-name>contextConfigLocation</param-name>
            <param-value></param-value>
        </init-param>
        <load-on-startup>1</load-on-startup>
    </servlet>

    <servlet-mapping>
        <servlet-name>app</servlet-name>
        <url-pattern>/app/*</url-pattern>
    </servlet-mapping>

</web-app>
```

> Spring Boot follows a different initialization sequence. Rather than hooking into the lifecycle of the Servlet container, Spring Boot uses Spring configuration to bootstrap itself and the embedded Servlet container. Filter and Servlet declarations are detected in Spring configuration and registered with the Servlet container. For more details check the Spring Boot docs.

> Spring Boot follows 一个不同的初始化顺序。Spring Boot使用Spring配置来引导自身和嵌入式Servlet容器，而不是挂钩到Servlet容器的生命周期。Filter和Servlet声明在Spring配置中检测到并在Servlet容器中注册。有关更多详细信息，请查看 Spring Boot文档。

## 1.2.1. Context Hierarchy

DispatcherServlet expects a WebApplicationContext, an extension of a plain ApplicationContext, for its own configuration. WebApplicationContext has a link to the ServletContext and Servlet it is associated with. It is also bound to the ServletContext such that applications can use static methods on RequestContextUtils to look up the WebApplicationContext if they need access to it.

DispatcherServlet 期望一个 WebApplicationContext ， WebApplicationContext 是 ApplicationContext 的一个扩展 。与 ServletContext 有一个上下文连接。可以使用 RequestContextUtils 的静态方法去查询 WebApplicationContext。

For many applications having a single WebApplicationContext is simple and sufficient. It is also possible to have a context hierarchy where one root WebApplicationContext is shared across multiple DispatcherServlet (or other Servlet) instances, each with its own child WebApplicationContext configuration. See Additional Capabilities of the ApplicationContext for more on the context hierarchy feature.  

对很多应用来讲，一个 WebApplicationContext 就够了。当然也支持 hierarchy 的 WebApplicationContext，多个 DispatcherServlet 共享一个 root WebApplicationContext，并且有自己独立的 WebApplicationContext configuration。

The root WebApplicationContext typically contains infrastructure beans such as data repositories and business services that need to be shared across multiple Servlet instances. Those beans are effectively inherited and could be overridden (i.e. re-declared) in the Servlet-specific, child WebApplicationContext which typically contains beans local to the given Servlet:

root WebApplicationContext 包含 DAO 和 Service 等，被多个 Servlet 实例共享。这些 beans 可以被继承，可以被重写。...

[图示](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/5.0.x/spring-framework-reference/images/mvc-context-hierarchy.png)

Below is example configuration with a WebApplicationContext hierarchy:

```{}
public class MyWebAppInitializer extends AbstractAnnotationConfigDispatcherServletInitializer {

    @Override
    protected Class<?>[] getRootConfigClasses() {
        return new Class<?>[] { RootConfig.class };
    }

    @Override
    protected Class<?>[] getServletConfigClasses() {
        return new Class<?>[] { App1Config.class };
    }

    @Override
    protected String[] getServletMappings() {
        return new String[] { "/app1/*" };
    }
}
```

TODO 这里没有看明白，所谓的层次是如何建立起来的

> If an application context hierarchy is not required, applications may return all configuration via getRootConfigClasses() and null from getServletConfigClasses().

> 如果不需要一个 application context 层次，applications 可能通过 getRootConfigClasses() 返回所有 configration ，通过 getServletConfigClasses() 返回空

And the web.xml equivalent:

等效于在 web.xml 中这样配置：  

```{}
<web-app>

    <listener>
        <listener-class>org.springframework.web.context.ContextLoaderListener</listener-class>
    </listener>

    <context-param>
        <param-name>contextConfigLocation</param-name>
        <param-value>/WEB-INF/root-context.xml</param-value>
    </context-param>

    <servlet>
        <servlet-name>app1</servlet-name>
        <servlet-class>org.springframework.web.servlet.DispatcherServlet</servlet-class>
        <init-param>
            <param-name>contextConfigLocation</param-name>
            <param-value>/WEB-INF/app1-context.xml</param-value>
        </init-param>
        <load-on-startup>1</load-on-startup>
    </servlet>

    <servlet-mapping>
        <servlet-name>app1</servlet-name>
        <url-pattern>/app1/*</url-pattern>
    </servlet-mapping>

</web-app>
```

## 1.2.2. Special Bean Types

The DispatcherServlet delegates to special beans to process requests and render the appropriate responses. By "special beans" we mean Spring-managed, Object instances that implement framework contracts. Those usually come with built-in contracts but you can customize their properties, extend or replace them.

DispatcherServlet 安排具体的 beans 处理请求，渲染响应。这里的所说的 beans 是Spring 管理的，实现了 framework 约定的对象。这些通常都有内置的 contracts 但是你可以自定义配置，继承或者替代他们。  

The table below lists the special beans detected by the DispatcherServlet:

| Bean type      | Explanation                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| HandlerMapping | Map a request to a handler along with a list of interceptors for pre- and post-processing. The mapping is based on some criteria the details of which vary by HandlerMapping implementation. | 
| HandlerMapping | The two main HandlerMapping implementations are RequestMappingHandlerMapping (which supports @RequestMapping annotated methods) and SimpleUrlHandlerMapping (which maintains explicit registrations of URI path patterns to handlers).    |
| 处理映射 | 两个主要的 HandlerMapping 实现是 RequestMappingHandlerMapping 和 SimpleUrlHandlerMapping （维护URI路径模式到处理程序的显式注册） |
| 处理映射 | 两个主要的 HandlerMapping 实现是 RequestMappingHandlerMapping 和 SimpleUrlHandlerMapping （维护URI路径模式到处理程序的显式注册） |
| HandlerAdapter | Help the DispatcherServlet to invoke a handler mapped to a request, regardless of how the handler is actually invoked. For example, invoking an annotated controller requires resolving annotations. The main purpose of a HandlerAdapter is to shield the DispatcherServlet from such details. |
HandlerExceptionResolver  Strategy to resolve exceptions, possibly mapping them to handlers, to HTML error views, or other targets. See Exceptions.
ViewResolver              Resolve logical String-based view names returned from a handler to an actual View with which to render to the response. See View Resolution and View Technologies.
LocaleResolver, LocaleContextResolver Resolve the Locale a client is using and possibly their time zone, in order to be able to offer internationalized views. See Locale.
ThemeResolver Resolve themes your web application can use — for example, to offer personalized layouts. See Themes.
MultipartResolver Abstraction for parsing a multi-part request (for example, browser form file upload) with the help of some multipart parsing library. See Multipart resolver.
FlashMapManager 