# 概述

## 1.2.3. Web MVC Config

Applications can declare the infrastructure beans listed in Special Bean Types that are required to process requests. The DispatcherServlet checks the WebApplicationContext for each special bean. If there are no matching bean types, it falls back on the default types listed in DispatcherServlet.properties.

应用程序可以声明那些 `Special Bean`。 如果没有声明，也可以使用默认的 `DispatcherServlet.properties` 列出的 `Special Bean`。

In most cases the MVC Config is the best starting point. It declares the required beans in either Java or XML, and provides a higher level configuration callback API to customize it.

大多数情况下 `MVC Config` 是最好的启动点。 

> Spring Boot relies on the MVC Java config to configure Spring MVC and also provides many extra convenient options.

## 1.2.4. Servlet Config

TODO ...

## 1.2.5. Processing

The DispatcherServlet processes requests as follows:  
DispatcherServlet 处理请求过程如下：  

- The WebApplicationContext is searched for and bound in the request as an attribute that the controller and other elements in the process can use. It is bound by default under the key DispatcherServlet.WEB_APPLICATION_CONTEXT_ATTRIBUTE.  
搜索WebApplicationContext并绑定在请求中，默认情况下 key 是 `DispatcherServlet.WEB_APPLICATION_CONTEXT_ATTRIBUTE`。供其他元素使用。  

- The locale resolver is bound to the request to enable elements in the process to resolve the locale to use when processing the request (rendering the view, preparing data, and so on). If you do not need locale resolving, you do not need it.  

- The theme resolver is bound to the request to let elements such as views determine which theme to use. If you do not use themes, you can ignore it.

- If you specify a multipart file resolver, the request is inspected for multiparts; if multiparts are found, the request is wrapped in a MultipartHttpServletRequest for further processing by other elements in the process. See Multipart resolver for further information about [multipart handling](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.x/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-multipart).

- An appropriate handler is searched for. If a handler is found, the execution chain associated with the handler (preprocessors, postprocessors, and controllers) is executed in order to prepare a model or rendering. Or alternatively for annotated controllers, the response may be rendered (within the HandlerAdapter) instead of returning a view.  
搜索合适的 handler ，用来处理请求比如`prepare a model`，或者渲染响应。  

- If a model is returned, the view is rendered. If no model is returned, (may be due to a preprocessor or postprocessor intercepting the request, perhaps for security reasons), no view is rendered, because the request could already have been fulfilled.  
如果返回模型，则呈现视图。如果没有返回模型（可能是由于预处理器或后处理器拦截请求，可能是出于安全原因），则不会呈现任何视图，因为该请求可能已经完成。

The `HandlerExceptionResolver` beans declared in the `WebApplicationContext` are used to resolve exceptions thrown during request processing. Those exception resolvers allow customizing the logic to address exceptions. See [Exceptions](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.x/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-exceptionhandlers) for more details.

HandlerExceptionResolver 参考 [Exceptions](https://docs.spring.io/spring/docs/5.0.x/spring-framework-reference/web.html#mvc-exceptionhandlers)

The Spring DispatcherServlet also supports the return of the last-modification-date, as specified by the Servlet API. The process of determining the last modification date for a specific request is straightforward: the DispatcherServlet looks up an appropriate handler mapping and tests whether the handler that is found implements the LastModified interface. If so, the value of the long getLastModified(request) method of the LastModified interface is returned to the client.

DispatcherServlet 也支持返回 `last-modification-date`, as specified by the Servlet API。确定特定请求的`last-modification-date`的过程很简单：DispatcherServlet查找适当的处理程序映射并测试找到的处理程序是否实现LastModified接口。如果是，则将`LastModified`接口long getLastModified(request)方法的值返回给客户端。

You can customize individual DispatcherServlet instances by adding Servlet initialization parameters (init-param elements) to the Servlet declaration in the web.xml file. See the following table for the list of supported parameters.  

您可以DispatcherServlet通过将Servlet初始化参数（init-param元素）添加到web.xml文件中的Servlet声明来自定义单个实例。有关支持的参数列表，请参阅下表。
