# Controller Advice

Typically @ExceptionHandler, @InitBinder, and @ModelAttribute methods apply within the @Controller class (or class hierarchy) they are declared in. If you want such methods to apply more globally, across controllers, you can declare them in a class marked with @ControllerAdvice or @RestControllerAdvice.  

@ExceptionHandler, @InitBinder, and @ModelAttribute 的方法 都是作用在 @Controller 类上的。如果你想让这些方法作用在多个/全部的控制器上，你可以把他们写在 标记了 @ControllerAdvice or @RestControllerAdvice 的类里。  

@ControllerAdvice is marked with @Component which means such classes can be registered as Spring beans via component scanning. @RestControllerAdvice is also a meta-annotation marked with both @ControllerAdvice and @ResponseBody which essentially means @ExceptionHandler methods are rendered to the response body via message conversion (vs view resolution/template rendering).

@ControllerAdvice 是通过  component scanning 来注册到 Spring 容器里的。

On startup, the infrastructure classes for @RequestMapping and @ExceptionHandler methods detect Spring beans of type @ControllerAdvice, and then apply their methods at runtime. Global @ExceptionHandler methods (from an @ControllerAdvice) are applied after local ones (from the @Controller). By contrast global @ModelAttribute and @InitBinder methods are applied before local ones.

启动的时候，infrastructure classes 会 detect @ControllerAdvice，然后在运行时应用到他们的 methods。全局的 @ExceptionHandler 在 local ones 后生效。与之相反，全局的 @ModelAttribute 和 @InitBinder 方法在 local ones 之前生效。  

By default @ControllerAdvice methods apply to every request, i.e. all controllers, but you can narrow that down to a subset of controllers via attributes on the annotation:

```
// Target all Controllers annotated with @RestController
@ControllerAdvice(annotations = RestController.class)
public class ExampleAdvice1 {}

// Target all Controllers within specific packages
@ControllerAdvice("org.example.controllers")
public class ExampleAdvice2 {}

// Target all Controllers assignable to specific classes
@ControllerAdvice(assignableTypes = {ControllerInterface.class, AbstractController.class})
public class ExampleAdvice3 {}
```

Keep in mind the above selectors are evaluated at runtime and may negatively impact performance if used extensively. See the @ControllerAdvice Javadoc for more details.

上面的选择器在运行时计算，可能会影响性能。

